What Is a Data Structure?
A data structure is a way of organizing data in computer memory, implemented in a programming language. This organization is required for efficient storage, retrieval, and modification of data. It is a fundamental concept as data structures are one of the main building blocks of any modern software. Learning what data structures exist and how to use them efficiently in different situations is one of the first steps toward learning any programming language.
Data Structures in Python
Built-in data structures in Python can be divided into two broad categories: mutable and immutable. Mutable (from Latin mutabilis, "changeable") data structures are those which we can modify — for example, by adding, removing, or changing their elements. Python has three mutable data structures: lists, dictionaries, and sets. Immutable data structures, on the other hand, are those that we cannot modify after their creation. The only basic built-in immutable data structure in Python is a tuple.

Python also has some advanced data structures, such as stacks or queues, which can be implemented with basic data structures. However, these are rarely used in data science and are more common in the field of software engineering and implementation of complex algorithms, so we won’t discuss them in this tutorial.

Different Python third-party packages implement their own data structures, like DataFrames and Series in pandas or arrays in NumPy. However, we will not talk about them here, either, because these are the topics of more specific tutorials (such as How to Create and Use a Pandas DataFrame or NumPy Tutorial: Data Analysis with Python).